<p>
   <strong>Previous section: </strong> <a href="03.response.md">Response</a>
</p>


Decorators
-------

Pristine uses a lot of decorators to augment the functionalities of a controller. In this section, we will list all the decorators available and how they can be used.

## `@controller`
The `@controller` decorator is put on a class to inform Pristine that this class will be used as a [Controller](00.index.md). This means that this class will handle http requests.

`@controller` cannot be used on its own. You need the `@route` decorator for each method to specify what method will be called for each endpoint.

### Define a base path
The decorator accepts a base path for the whole class. This means that if you put a base path, you won't need to type the whole path in the `@route` decorator. 
You'll only specify the part after the base path defined for the whole controller.

Here's an example:
```
@controller("/api")
@injectable()
class ApiController {
}
```


## `@route`
The `@route` decorator is the decorator that tells pristine that the method is associated with the path passed to the `@route` decorator. This makes it easy to develop as you only need
to create methods and one `@route` decorator per method and Pristine will map the request to the proper method.

Here's an example:

```
@controller("/api")
@injectable()
class ApiController {
    @route(HttpMethod.Post, "/")  
    public createNewDocument() {
        return "";
    }
}
```

If you make a `POST` HTTP call to `/api`, the `createNewDocument` method will be called.

## `@routeParameter`
The `@routeParameter` is useful for routes that have parameters inside them. Parameters are defined in the `@route` decorator like this:

`/api/dogs/{id}`
or
`/api/dogs/:id`

In these two routes above, the parameter is `id`. Hence, in your method, you want to retrieve the parameter easily, so that's where the `@routeParameter` comes into play.

```
@controller("/api")
@injectable()
class ApiController {
    @route(HttpMethod.Post, "/dogs/:id")  
    public createNewDocument(@routeParameter("id") id: string) {
        return "This is the id '" + id + "'.";
    }
}
```

If you make a `POST` HTTP call to `/api/dogs/Fido`, the `id` parameter will have the value `Fido` and the response will return:

> This is the id 'Fido'.

## `@body`
The `@body` can be put on a method argument to receive the content of the HTTP Request Body as a parameter. This decorator allows you to do:

```
import {injectable} from "tsyringe";
import {controller, route, body} from "@pristine-ts/networking";
import {HttpMethod} from "@pristine-ts/common";

@controller()
@injectable()
class ApiController {
    @route(HttpMethod.Post, "/api")  
    public createNewDocument(@body body: any) {
        return "This method sent the following body: '" + JSON.stringify(body) + "'";
    }
}
```

**Take note that this is not the raw body. Depending on your headers and depending on if the Request Body Converter is active or not.**

## `@headers`
The `@headers` decorator can be used as a method argument. This decorator will inject all the headers of the request in a method argument.

Here's an example:
```
@controller("/api")
@injectable()
class ApiController {
    @route(HttpMethod.Post, "/")  
    public createNewDocument(@headers headers: { [key: string]: string }) {
        return "These are all the headers passed in the request: '" + JSON.stringify(headers) + "'";
    }
}
```

## `@identity`
The `@identity` decorator can be used as a method argument. This decorator can be used in a controller that has an authenticator. This decorator
will inject the authenticated identity, so you can access it and do authorization. To learn more about Identity and Authentication, and how you can configure and reject unauthorized users, we recommend you read the [Authentication](../06-authentication/00.index.md) chapter.

Here's a simple example of using Identity (assuming you have setup Authentication properly): 

```
    @route(HttpMethod.Post, "/")  
    public createNewDocument(@identity: IdentityInterface) {
        return "This is the logged in user '" + JSON.stringify(identity) + "'";
    }
```

## `@queryParameter`
The `@queryParameter` will unwrap the query parameter specified as an argument to the decorator and inject ,in the argument, the value found in the URL.

Let's say the request contains the following URL `http://localhost/api?version=1.0`, the query parameter's value is `1.0`. This is the value that the 
method argument `version` below would contain.

```
@controller("/api")
@injectable()
class ApiController {
    @route(HttpMethod.Post, "/")  
    public createNewDocument(@queryParameter("version") version: string | null) {
        return "This is the value of the query parameter version passed in the URL: '" + version + "'";
    }
}
```

## `@queryParameters`
The `@queryParameters` decorator is similar to the `@queryParameter` but instead of injecting only one query parameter, it injects them all.

```
@controller("/api")
@injectable()
class ApiController {
    @route(HttpMethod.Post, "/")  
    public createNewDocument(@queryParameters() queryParameters: { [key: string]: string | undefined } | null) {
        return "These are all the query parameters passed in the URL: '" + JSON.stringify(queryParameters) + "'";
    }
}
```


## `@request`
The `@request` decorator passes the RequestInterface object to the method. This can be useful if you want to play with the request yourself.

**Side note**, remember that this request was intercepted and enriched so if you find differences, you might have an interceptor or an Enricher modifying the request before it gets to your controller's method.

```
@controller("/api")
@injectable()
class ApiController {
    @route(HttpMethod.Post, "/")  
    public createNewDocument(@request() request: Request) {
        return "This is the request made: '" + JSON.stringify(request) + "'";
    }
}
```

## `@responseHeader`
The `@responseHeader` can be used to modify the response header's by adding a header that should be returned as part of the HTTP Response.

Here's an example:
```
@controller("/api")
@injectable()
class ApiController {
    @responseHeader("Accept-Allow-Origin", "*")
    @route(HttpMethod.Post, "/")  
    public createNewDocument() {
        return "";
    }
}
```


## `@bodyValidation`
For this decorator, you will need the `@pristine-ts/validation` module. This adds a dependency to these npm packages: 
```
class-transformer,
class-validator,
```

which in turn only add 2 additional dependencies:

```
libphonenumber-js,
validator,
```

These libraries are very complete, add huge benefits and are very lightweight. Hence, 

**It is our objective to keep the number of external dependencies as low as possible. When we include dependencies, we try to be as transparent as possible.**

This decorator is used to specify to Pristine that the Body of the Http Request should be validated according to an object with the decorators included in the `class-validator` package.

Here's an example of a class that has validators:

```
class DogCreationOptions {
    @IsString()
    @IsNotEmpty()
    name: string;
}
```

Then, in your controller, you can simply do the following:

```
@controller("/api")
@injectable()
class ApiController {
    @bodyValidation(DogCreationOptions)
    @route(HttpMethod.Post, "/")  
    public createdNewDog(@body() dogCreationOptions: DogCreationOptions) {
        return "";
    }
}
```

Finally, if your HTTP payload doesn't contain the name (as a JSON), then because you have the `@bodyValidation` decorator, the response will be a `400`.

You will learn more about the Validation in the next section.

---

<p align="right">
    <strong>Next section: </strong> <a href="docs/getting-started/02-controllers/05.validation.md">Validation</a>
</p>

