Hosting / Execution
-------------------
Pristine is built with the strong opinion that your business logic should be 100% agnostic from how it is hosted. Most NodeJS frameworks share this same mentality. However, Pristine does it differently. 

Instead of being tightly coupled with a Http Server, Pristine is entirely decoupled from how it is hosted. To do so, Pristine encapsulates its own Request object. Then, you have the choice of the Http Server you want to use. You simply need a mapper and we try to create one for each available http server.

#### Why bother you might ask?
The big benefit of this approach is when you deploy your code to a Function as a Service (FaaS) provider. In the Serverless world, being coupled with a Http Server is major handicap. Let's see why.

In a Function as a Service(FaaS) world, the Cloud providers all have builtin mechanisms to transform Http requests into binary objects, compatible with the runtime language, that can be used directly in the code without any further transformation.

Unfortunately, most NodeJS frameworks are not built with a Serverless first mentality and can only handle Http requests by starting a Http Server. When you think about it for a second, it doesn't make sense. The Cloud Infrastructre provides you with a Request object, why not use it directly?

Starting another Http Server means that you are doing the same work twice. This results in this inefficient process:

<!-- todo put a real diagram -->
Http Client ---> Cloud --> Function Invocation (with Request object) --> Start local Http Server --> Convert request as Http Request --> Send to local Http Server --> Traditional NodeJS frameworks transform the Http Request into a Request object --> NodeJS frameworks handles the request.

Pristine doesn't work like that. Because it isn't coupled with a specific Http Server, Pristine expects its own Request format. This means that we only have to map the Cloud's request object into Pristine's. 

As you can start to understand, this also means that we can easily map any Http Server's requests into a Pristine Request object. Mapping between two objects is always faster than starting a full-fledge Http Server and then converting it again twice.

Therefore, Pristine's process is much simpler and much faster:
Http Client ---> Cloud --> Function Invocation (with Request object) --> Cloud Specific Request Mapper --> Pristine

#### What about cold starts?
If you are familiar with FaaS, you are definitely familiar with the concept of cold starts. 

A cold start refers to the first instantiation of a function. Behind the scenes, depending on the implementation, the Cloud Provider has to quickly launch a container (or a NodeJS process in the case of CloudFlare Workers) and set it up properly (networking, attached disks, etc..) before serving the request.

After the first launch, the Cloud Providers usually keep your function "warm", meaning they keep the container running. This means that during the next execution, you won't incure a cold start latency.

Reducing the cold start latency is very important topic for the adoption of FaaS. 

Additionally, not increasing the cold start is important. This last sentence is precisely the goal we had when building Pristine:

> Building a lightweight full-fledge framework that has a minimal impact on cold starts when being ran in FaaS while being as efficient in traditional hosting.

#### This is great, but I don't want to use Serverless

What's very interesting with Pristine, is that you don't incur a performance hit if you use a NodeJS Http Server either. The fact that Pristine is properly decoupled can be leveraged in the case of hosting it via a NodeJS Http Server.


### Supported Hosting Contexts
=============================
You can host Pristine under different contexts:
* Function as a Service (Serverless)
* NodeJS Server (Container, Virtual machine or your local machine)
* For scripting purposes by running it directly via the command line



## Function as a Service (Serverless)
=====================================



### Scripting

If you look at the `scr/main.ts` file you created, we didn't tell you before, but this was the Scripting hosting. You can use the kernel directly to retrieve your classes from the Container and have their dependencies instantiated automatically. In certain contexts, you don't necessarily want to load an HTTP server, but you want to execute code and still benefit from all the features that Pristine provides. 

This is very useful and powerful. This means that you can write your business logic once and call your code under different mechanisms, from an HTTP call, from a Serverless world or from the command line.

### Function as a Service (Serverless)
In a Function as a Service world, the Cloud providers all have mechanisms to transform Http requests into binary objects, compatible with the runtime language, that can be used directly in the code without any further transformation. 

Unfortunately, most NodeJS frameworks are not built with a Serverless first mentality and can only handle Http requests by starting a Http Server. When you think about it for a second, it doesn't make sense. The Cloud provides you with a Request object, why not using it directly?
Starting another Http Server means that you are doing the same work twice.

This results in the following inefficient process:

<!-- todo put a real diagram -->
Http Client ---> Cloud --> Function Invocation (with Request object) --> Start local Http Server --> Convert request as Http Request --> Send to local Http Server --> Traditional NodeJS frameworks transform the Http Request into a Request object --> NodeJS frameworks handles the request.

Pristine doesn't work like that. Because it isn't coupled with any Http Server, Pristine expects its own Request format. This means that we only have to map the cloud's request object into pristine. This also means that we can easily map any Http Server's requests into a Pristine Request object. Mapping between two objects is always faster than starting a full-fledge Http Server.

Therefore, the process is much simpler:
Http Client ---> Cloud --> Function Invocation (with Request object) --> Cloud Specific Request Mapper --> Pristine

What's very interesting with Pristine, is that you don't incur a performance hit if you use a NodeJS Http Server either. The fact that Pristine is properly decoupled is very useful.

#### AWS Lambda

In the Lambda world, you have two different flows, the Request flow (from API Gateway) that expects a response and the Event flow (all the Lambda triggers). Pristine allows you to reuse code by supporting those two flows out of the box.  

### Http Server


