<p>
   <strong>Previous section: </strong> <a href="02.hosting.md">Hosting</a>
</p>


# Dependency Injection

Dependency Injection is a software pattern where your dependencies are "injected" into your class. This means that in your class, you don't have to worry about how your dependencies will be instantiated. 
You just know they will be instantiated for you.

This is a very strong pattern for testing. It's very easy to mock the dependencies if you specify your dependencies as Interfaces. Then, your mocks simply have to implement the Interface and there you go. This allows you to unit test
your class in complete isolation.

If you want to read more about Dependency Injection, here are a few links:
* [A quick intro to Dependency Injection: what it is, and when to use it](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/a-quick-intro-to-dependency-injection-what-it-is-and-when-to-use-it-7578c84fa88f/)
* [https://blog.logrocket.com/the-perfect-architecture-flow-for-your-next-node-js-project/](https://blog.logrocket.com/the-perfect-architecture-flow-for-your-next-node-js-project/) 

## Dependency Injection in NodeJS, really?
Dependency Injection is not always popular in NodeJS. There's a big debate going on between whether you should need DI since you can import your classes (that you could instantiate before exporting). In our opinion though, this still creates a tight coupling between classes. Also, testing is way harder without DI.

Similar to the approach that [NestJS](https://github.com/nestjs/nest) has taken, we are going full Object Oriented Programming with Dependency Injection at its core.

## TSyringe to the rescue

We haven't reinvented the wheel so Pristine uses [TSyringe](https://github.com/microsoft/tsyringe), developed by Microsoft, as a Dependency Injection container. TSyringe was chosen for a few reasons:
* It has a very low number of external dependencies (only tslib and tslib has no external dependencies)
* It is very well tested and supported (Supported by Microsoft, creators of TypeScript (2.6K stars) )
* It is very fast and efficient

Hence, when using Pristine, you must use TSyringe. As a matter of facts, we have not encapsulated TSyringe's container so if you want to access the TSyringe container, simply retrieve it from the kernel:

```
kernel.container
```

### Registering dependencies

There are a few ways to register your dependencies. The most recommended way is to annotate your class with the `@injectable()` decorator as described in TSyringe's documentation. Here's an example:

```
@injectable()
class DatabaseService {
}

@injectable()
class MyService {
    public constructor(private readonly databaseService: DatabaseService) {}    
}
```

**Take note**, in order for Pristine and TSyringe to find your class and register it, due to the fact decorators do not get called if no classes are importing it, you must also register any services in your module class like this:

```
export const AppModule: AppModuleInterface = {
    importServices: [
        DatabaseService, // <-- Must be registered here to be found
        MyService, // <-- Must be registered here to be found
    ],
    importModules: [
     CoreModule,
    ],
    keyname: "my_namespace.app",
}
```

### The @tag decorator
Even though TSyringe offers a vast range of functionalities, there's one that cannot easily be done via decorators; the ability to be injected multiple classes as an array of dependencies. 
There are no TSyringe decorators that provide this type of functionality, so we built one: `@tag`. 

This decorator allows you to tag your classes with a specific name and have them be injected inside an array in another class. Let's look at an example.

Let's say you want to do something like this:

```
interface LogHandler {
    log(message: string);
}

@injectable()
class FileLogHandler implements LogHandler {
    log(message: string) {
        // save the message to a file
    }
}

@injectable()
class ConsoleLogHandler implements LogHandler {
    log(message: string) {
        console.log(message);
    }
}

@injectable()
class Logger {
    constructor(private readonly logHandlers: LogHandlerInterface[]) {} // <-- It would be nice to be able to have all the classes that implement LogHandler 
}

```

That's where the `@tag` decorator comes into play. You annotate the classes that you want to "tag" and then, you use the `@injectAll` decorator to receive all the classes that have been tagged. Here's how the previous code would look like:

**The tag name passed to the `@tag` decorator must be unique else you will get a unexpected list of classes**

```
interface LogHandler {
    log(message: string);
}

@tag("LogHandler")
@moduleScoped("my_namespace.app")
@injectable()
class FileLogHandler implements LogHandler {
    log(message: string) {
        // save the message to a file
    }
}

@tag("LogHandler")
@moduleScoped("my_namespace.app")
@injectable()
class ConsoleLogHandler implements LogHandler {
    log(message: string) {
        console.log(message);
    }
}

@injectable()
class Logger {
    constructor(@injectAll("LogHandler") private readonly logHandlers: LogHandlerInterface[]) {} // <-- It would be nice to be able to have all the classes that implement LogHandler 
}

```

**Side note, due to how TSyringe works, if you use `@injectAll` and there are no classes, TSryinge will throw. Therefore, if you use `@injectAll`, makes sure at least one of your class has the `@tag` decorator.**

**Tags coupled with interfaces**

// todo write here how you can use tags to inject Interfaces.

### The @moduleScoped decorator
The `@moduleScoped` only works combined while the `@tag` decorator is also on the class. The `@moduleScoped` decorator ensures that your tagged class will only be registered in the container if your module is actually imported by Pristine in the chain of module imports.

**Why is it needed?**
You might not put it and it will work and might be tempted to never use it.

However, there's one use case that will cause you head scratches. Let's say you have a shared module that you don't want Pristine to load but, you want to import a Typescript class from it (imagine an enum, a constant or something else). 
If in the chain of typescript imports, a class that has the `@tag` decorator is imported, because of the way decorators work (meaning decorators are executed on imports), the class will end up being registered in the container.

This could cause two potential issues:
1. You could end up with the class (from a module not imported by Pristine) that is resolved while the expectations are that it shouldn't have been since the module is not imported.
2. You could end up with an exception from TSyringe that it can't resolve all the dependencies of this class. Effectively, this class could need a dependency such as a configuration parameter that only gets loaded when the module is imported by Pristine.

Therefore, to avoid any issues, we highly recommend that you always use the `moduleScoped` decorator whenever you put the `@tag` decorator to avoid any weird behaviors.

We'll explain the modules in the one of the next chapters but for now, just assume that when you use the `@tag` decorator, also use the `@moduleScoped`. 

---

<p align="right">
    <strong>Next section: </strong> <a href="04.decorators.md">Decorators</a>
</p>

