<p>
   <strong>Previous section: </strong> <a href="00.index.md">Controllers</a>
</p>


Controllers
-------

In order to make it easy to handle Http Requests in your code, you can annotate classes with the `@controller` decorator to tell Pristine to map corresponding HTTP Requests to this class.

Behind the scenes, Pristine will map the methods to different HTTP Endpoints and will route the requests to the appropriately decorated method.

Here's an example, let's create a file at `src/controllers/api.controller.ts`:
```
import {injectable} from "tsyringe";
import {controller, route} from "@pristine-ts/networking";
import {HttpMethod} from "@pristine-ts/common";

@controller()
@injectable()
class ApiController {
    @route(HttpMethod.Get, "/api")  
    public get() {
        return "This method was reached at 'GET /api'";
    }
}
```

make sure you also add this controller to your AppModule (`src/app.module.ts`) like this:
```
import {CoreModule} from "@pristine-ts/core";
import {ApiController} from "controllers/api.controller"

export const AppModule: AppModuleInterface = {
    importServices: [
        ApiController, // <-- Import this Controller
    ],
    importModules: [
        CoreModule,
    ],
    keyname: "my_namespace.app",
}
```


If you make an HTTP call with method `GET` at `/api`, your method will be invoked and the HTTP response will be 
> This method was reached at 'GET /api'
 
As you can imagine, this controller must be registered in the Container hence why you are seeing the `@injectable` decorator.

**In the section [decorators](04.decorators.md), you will learn about all the different decorators supported inside a Controller**

That's it, you have created your first Controller!

## How can I control the response I'm returning?
By default, Pristine doesn't force you to return a Response object from your controller. You can return a string, a value or a JSON object and pristine will wrap everything for you.

However, in certain cases, you might want to return an actual Http Response (if you want to control the Http Status for example).

Let's look at the code inside Pristine to understand how that works:

*At this point, the variable `response` contains the value returned by the method of your controller*
```
    let returnedResponse: Response;
    // If the response is already a Response object, return the response
    if(response instanceof Response) {
        returnedResponse = response;
    } else {
        // If the response is not a response object, but the method hasn't thrown an error, assume the
        // returned response is directly the body. Also assume an Http Status code of 200.
        returnedResponse = new Response();
        returnedResponse.status = 200;
        returnedResponse.body = response;
    }
```

As you can see, we do a very simple logic to wrap the return object from your controller for you.

**In summary, if you return a [Response](03.response.md) object from your Controller, it will be respected. If you return an object, we will assume success and wrap your return value in a Response object for you.** 

## What if I throw?
You can throw in your controller without issues. We will capture the error and return it. It will still go through the [Error Lifecycle](00.index.md).

Additionally, if the error you throw inherits the class [HttpError](../../../packages/networking/src/errors/http.error.ts), Pristine will automatically unwrap the status code and return a proper response to your API for you.


---
**Next, you will learn about the Request object and how it can be used to make Pristine compatible with every Http Server**

<p align="right">
    <strong>Next section: </strong> <a href="docs/getting-started/03-controllers/02.request.md">Request</a>
</p>

