<p>
   <strong>Previous section: </strong> <a href="04.decorators.md">Decorators</a>
</p>


Validation
-------
Validation is a very critical element when creating Http Apis. With Pristine, we wanted to make this process as easy as it could be. That's why in the last section you saw the `@bodyValidation` decorator.

The idea is that you can specify an object that you want to receive, specify the validation constraints as decorators

To do so, we are using the [class-validator](https://github.com/typestack/class-validator) library. 

You must include Pristine's `ValidationModule` in order for the validation to work. We have split the validation in its own module because it includes other dependencies. With our constant goal to keep dependencies to a minimum, if you don't need validation, we didn't want to force you to have dependencies you don't need.

Overall, the end goal is for you to not have to validate manually all the properties of the payload you receive. So, here are the steps you need to follow for successful validation.

## Step 1 - Install the `pristine-ts/validation` library

Run `npm install pristine-ts/validation`

## Step 2 - Add the validation module to your `app.module.ts` file.

```
import {CoreModule} from "@pristine-ts/core";
import {ValidationModule} from "@pristine-ts/validation"

export const AppModule: AppModuleInterface = {
    importServices: [        
    ],
    importModules: [
        CoreModule,
        ValidationModule,
    ],
    keyname: "my_namespace.app",
}
```

## Step 3 - Create the class representing the payload you want to validate and add the decorators from `class-validator`
```
class DogCreationOptions {
    @IsString()
    @IsNotEmpty()
    name: string;
}
```

## Step 4 - Add the decorator on your controller

```
@controller("/api")
@injectable()
class ApiController {
    @bodyValidation(DogCreationOptions)
    @route(HttpMethod.Post, "/")  
    public createdNewDog(@body() dogCreationOptions: DogCreationOptions) {
        return "";
    }
}
```

## Step 5 - Test everything

You can test your code by sending an HTTP Request:

`POST /api`

with the following body:

### Valid payload
```
{
    "name": "Peach"
}
```

This payload should return you a valid response.

### Invalid payload
```
{
}
```

This payload will return you a `400` letting you know which fields are missing from your payload.

**That's it! You now have the certainty when a class reaches your method, that it is fully validated!**

---

<p align="right">
    <strong>Next section: </strong> <a href="docs/getting-started/03-controllers/06.interceptors.md">Interceptors</a>
</p>

