<p>
   <strong>Previous section: </strong> <a href="00.index.md">Events</a>
</p>


Interceptor
-------

Interceptors are very useful to modify an Event during the different stages of the Event Pipeline. Pristine offers many 
opportunities to intervene and modify the Events as they travel along the pipeline. There are 4 opportunities:
1. Pre-Mapping
2. Post-Mapping
3. Pre Response-Mapping
4. Post Response-Mapping

## Pre-Mapping
If you intercept at this time, you will receive the raw Event (minus modifications from the interceptors that ran prior
to your interceptor). This is useful for logging or Sanitizing critical information (just to name a few).

## Post-Mapping
At Post-Mapping, your interceptor will receive a Pristine Event object. The event has not yet been handled by any 
services. You have the opportunity to modify it before it gets handled by your services. This can be useful to make 
adjustments to a Request before it reaches the controller for example.

## Pre Response-Mapping
At this state, the Event has been handled, and you are now intercepting an EventResponse object, no longer an Event. 
This EventResponse is still a Pristine object and hasn't been mapped into the final response returned to the serverless
platform. This is an interesting opportunity to standardize the response format returned to your API (adding the same
JSON structure for example).

## Post Response-Mapping
Similar to the Pre-Mapping state, at this time, you are no longer handling a Pristine object. You are really 
intercepting the final EventResponse JSON object that will be returned to the Serverless platform.